## Username enumeration via account lock

**Title:** Username enumeration via account lock. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/password-based/lab-username-enumeration-via-account-lock)

**Description:** This lab is vulnerable to username enumeration. It uses account locking, but this contains a logic flaw. To solve the lab, enumerate a valid username, brute-force this user's password, then access their account page.

- Candidate usernames
- Candidate passwords

## Preface

One way in which websites try to prevent brute-forcing is to lock the account if certain suspicious criteria are met, usually a set number of failed login attempts. Just as with normal login errors, responses from the server indicating that an account is locked can also help an attacker to enumerate usernames.

Locking an account offers a certain amount of protection against targeted brute-forcing of a specific account. However, this approach fails to adequately prevent brute-force attacks in which the attacker is just trying to gain access to any random account they can.

For example, the following method can be used to work around this kind of protection:

1. Establish a list of candidate usernames that are likely to be valid. This could be through username enumeration or simply based on a list of common usernames.

2. Decide on a very small shortlist of passwords that you think at least one user is likely to have. Crucially, the number of passwords you select must not exceed the number of login attempts allowed. For example, if you have worked out that limit is 3 attempts, you need to pick a maximum of 3 password guesses.

3. Using a tool such as Burp Intruder, try each of the selected passwords with each of the candidate usernames. This way, you can attempt to brute-force every account without triggering the account lock. You only need a single user to use one of the three passwords in order to compromise an account.

Account locking also fails to protect against credential stuffing attacks. This involves using a massive dictionary of `username:password` pairs, composed of genuine login credentials stolen in data breaches. Credential stuffing relies on the fact that many people reuse the same username and password on multiple websites and, therefore, there is a chance that some of the compromised credentials in the dictionary are also valid on the target website. Account locking does not protect against credential stuffing because each username is only being attempted once. Credential stuffing is particularly dangerous because it can sometimes result in the attacker compromising many different accounts with just a single automated attack.


## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /login` endpoint.

### My thought

With Burp running, investigate the login page and submit an invalid username and password. Send the `POST /login` request to Burp Intruder.

Select the attack type Cluster bomb. Add a payload position to the username parameter. Add a blank payload position to the end of the request body by clicking Add § twice. The result should look something like this: `username=§invalid-username§&password=example§§`

On the Payloads tab, add the list of usernames to the first payload set. For the second set, select the Null payloads type and choose the option to generate 5 payloads. This will effectively cause each username to be repeated 5 times. Start the attack.

In the results, notice that the responses for one of the usernames were longer than responses when using other usernames. Study the response more closely and notice that it contains a different error message: You have made too many incorrect login attempts. Make a note of this username.

Create a new Burp Intruder attack on the `POST /login` request, but this time select the Sniper attack type. Set the username parameter to the username that you just identified and add a payload position to the password parameter.

Add the list of passwords to the payload set and create a grep extraction rule for the error message. Start the attack. In the results, look at the grep extract column. Notice that there are a couple of different error messages, but one of the responses did not contain any error message. Make a note of this password.

Wait for a minute to allow the account lock to reset. Log in using the username and password that you identified and access the user account page to solve the lab.

For some wired reason my burp is not working properly while solving the lab. So, I can not add the screenshots.

**Insight:**
Talking to application security a application should be robust enough to mitigate brute force attack. Developer should implement all possible security hardening method to mitigate all brute force bypass technique.
