## 2FA simple bypass

**Title:** 2FA simple bypass. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor/lab-2fa-simple-bypass)

**Description:**  
This lab's two-factor authentication can be bypassed. You have already obtained a valid username and password, but do not have access to the user's 2FA verification code. To solve the lab, access Carlos's account page.

- Your credentials: `wiener:peter`
- Victim's credentials: `carlos:montoya`

## Preface

Many websites rely exclusively on single-factor authentication using a password to authenticate users. However, some require users to prove their identity using multiple authentication factors.

Verifying biometric factors is impractical for most websites. However, it is increasingly common to see both mandatory and optional two-factor authentication (2FA) based on something you know and something you have. This usually requires users to enter both a traditional password and a temporary verification code from an out-of-band physical device in their possession.

While it is sometimes possible for an attacker to obtain a single knowledge-based factor, such as a password, being able to simultaneously obtain another factor from an out-of-band source is considerably less likely. For this reason, two-factor authentication is demonstrably more secure than single-factor authentication. However, as with any security measure, it is only ever as secure as its implementation. Poorly implemented two-factor authentication can be beaten, or even bypassed entirely, just as single-factor authentication can.

It is also worth noting that the full benefits of multi-factor authentication are only achieved by verifying multiple different factors. Verifying the same factor in two different ways is not true two-factor authentication. Email-based 2FA is one such example. Although the user has to provide a password and a verification code, accessing the code only relies on them knowing the login credentials for their email account. Therefore, the knowledge authentication factor is simply being verified twice.

Verification codes are usually read by the user from a physical device of some kind. Many high-security websites now provide users with a dedicated device for this purpose, such as the RSA token or keypad device that you might use to access your online banking or work laptop. In addition to being purpose-built for security, these dedicated devices also have the advantage of generating the verification code directly. It is also common for websites to use a dedicated mobile app, such as Google Authenticator, for the same reason.

On the other hand, some websites send verification codes to a user's mobile phone as a text message. While this is technically still verifying the factor of "something you have", it is open to abuse. Firstly, the code is being transmitted via SMS rather than being generated by the device itself. This creates the potential for the code to be intercepted. There is also a risk of SIM swapping, whereby an attacker fraudulently obtains a SIM card with the victim's phone number. The attacker would then receive all SMS messages sent to the victim, including the one containing their verification code.

At times, the implementation of two-factor authentication is flawed to the point where it can be bypassed entirely.

If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step. Occasionally, you will find that a website doesn't actually check whether or not you completed the second step before loading the page. 

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /login` endpoint.

### My thought

After logging into our own account  2FA verification code is sent to us by our email client. After submitting our code we redirected to `/my-account` endpoint . And we logged in our account. Let's enter victim's credentials and 2FA verification code is required to login to victim's account. then we changed the URL to `/my-account` and we logged in to victim's account. Here backend didn't check if the 2FA verification code is submitted or not.

**Insight:**

Multi factor verification is the next layer of security while talking to authentication vulnerabilities. But developer should ensure every step is checked by backed logic properly.  Most importantly: 

_If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step._
