## 2FA broken logic

**Title:** 2FA broken logic. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor/lab-2fa-broken-logic)

**Description:** 

 This lab's two-factor authentication is vulnerable due to its flawed logic. To solve the lab, access Carlos's account page.

- Your credentials: `wiener:peter`
- Victim's username: `carlos`

You also have access to the email server to receive your 2FA verification code.

## Preface

Sometimes flawed logic in two-factor authentication means that after a user has completed the initial login step, the website doesn't adequately verify that the same user is completing the second step. For example, the user logs in with their normal credentials in the first step as follows:
```
POST /login-steps/first HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
...
username=carlos&password=qwerty
```
They are then assigned a cookie that relates to their account, before being taken to the second step of the login process:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Set-Cookie: account=carlos

GET /login-steps/second HTTP/1.1
Cookie: account=carlos
```
When submitting the verification code, the request uses this cookie to determine which account the user is trying to access:
```
POST /login-steps/second HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
Cookie: account=carlos
...
verification-code=123456
```
In this case, an attacker could log in using their own credentials but then change the value of the account cookie to any arbitrary username when submitting the verification code.
```
POST /login-steps/second HTTP/1.1
Host: vulnerable-website.com
Cookie: account=victim-user
...
verification-code=123456
```
This is extremely dangerous if the attacker is then able to brute-force the verification code as it would allow them to log in to arbitrary users' accounts based entirely on their username. They would never even need to know the user's password.
## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /login` endpoint.

### My thought

With Burp running, logging in to our own account and investigating the 2FA verification process we noticed that in the `POST /login2` request, the verify parameter is used to determine which user's account is being accessed. We logged out and sent the `GET /login2` request to Burp Repeater. After that we changed the value of the verify parameter to `carlos` and sent the request. This ensures that a temporary 2FA code is generated for `carlos`. After going to the login page and submitting our username and password. Then, we submitted an invalid 2FA code. Then we sent the `POST /login2` request to Burp Intruder. In Burp Intruder, after setting the verify parameter to `carlos` and add a payload position to the mfa-code parameter. Brute-force the verification code. Load the 302 response in the browser. Click My account to solve the lab.

**Insight:**

Multi factor verification is the next layer of security while talking to authentication vulnerabilities. But developer should ensure every step is checked by backed logic properly.  Most importantly: 

_If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step._
