## 2FA bypass using a brute-force attack

**Title:** 2FA bypass using a brute-force attack. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor/lab-2fa-bypass-using-a-brute-force-attack)

**Description:** 

This lab's two-factor authentication is vulnerable to brute-forcing. You have already obtained a valid username and password, but do not have access to the user's 2FA verification code. To solve the lab, brute-force the 2FA code and access Carlos's account page.

Victim's credentials: `carlos:montoya`

## Preface

As with passwords, websites need to take steps to prevent brute-forcing of the 2FA verification code. This is especially important because the code is often a simple 4 or 6-digit number. Without adequate brute-force protection, cracking such a code is trivial.

Some websites attempt to prevent this by automatically logging a user out if they enter a certain number of incorrect verification codes. This is ineffective in practice because an advanced attacker can even automate this multi-step process by creating macros for Burp Intruder. The Turbo Intruder extension can also be used for this purpose.

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /login` endpoint.

### My thought

With Burp running, log in as `carlos` and investigate the 2FA verification process. Notice that if we enter the wrong code twice, we will be logged out again. We need to use Burp's session handling features to log back in automatically before sending each request. In Burp, go to Project options > Sessions. In the Session Handling Rules panel, click Add. The Session handling rule editor dialog opens. In the dialog, go to the Scope tab. Under URL Scope, select the option Include all URLs. Go back to the Details tab and under Rule Actions, click Add > Run a macro. Under Select macro click Add to open the Macro Recorder. Select the following 3 requests:  `GET /login`,  `POST /login`, `GET /login2`.
Then click OK. The Macro Editor dialog opens. Click Test macro and check that the final response contains the page asking us to provide the 4-digit security code. This confirms that the macro is working correctly. Keep clicking OK to close the various dialogs until you get back to the main Burp window. The macro will now automatically log us back in as Carlos before each request is sent by Burp Intruder. Send the `POST /login2` request to Burp Intruder. In Burp Intruder, add a payload position to the mfa-code parameter. On the Payloads tab, select the Numbers payload type. Enter the range 0 - 9999 and set the step to 1. Set the min/max integer digits to 4 and max fraction digits to 0. This will create a payload for every possible 4-digit integer. Go to the Resource pool tab and add the attack to a resource pool with the Maximum concurrent requests set to 1.

Start the attack. Eventually, one of the requests will return a 302 status code. Right-click on this request and select Show response in browser. Copy the URL and load it in the browser. Click My account to solve the lab.

**Insight:**

Multi factor verification is the next layer of security while talking to authentication vulnerabilities. But developer should ensure every step is checked by backed logic properly.  Most importantly: 

_If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step._
