## Password brute-force via password change 

**Title:** Password brute-force via password change. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/other-mechanisms/lab-password-brute-force-via-password-change)

**Description:** 
This lab's password change functionality makes it vulnerable to brute-force attacks. To solve the lab, use the list of candidate passwords to brute-force Carlos's account and access his "My account" page.

- Your credentials: `wiener:peter`
- Victim's username: `carlos`
- Candidate passwords

## Preface

Typically, changing your password involves entering your current password and then the new password twice. These pages fundamentally rely on the same process for checking that usernames and current passwords match as a normal login page does. Therefore, these pages can be vulnerable to the same techniques.

Password change functionality can be particularly dangerous if it allows an attacker to access it directly without being logged in as the victim user. For example, if the username is provided in a hidden field, an attacker might be able to edit this value in the request to target arbitrary users. This can potentially be exploited to enumerate usernames and brute-force passwords.

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

While solving this lab we are interested in `POST /my-account/change-
password` endpoint.

### My thought

With Burp running, we logged in to experiment the password change functionality. We observed that the username is submitted as hidden input in the request. If the two entries for the new password match, the account is locked. However, if we enter two different new passwords, an error message simply states `Current password is incorrect`. If we enter a valid current password, but two different new passwords, the message says `New passwords do not match`. We can use this message to enumerate correct passwords. We entered correct current password and two new passwords that do not match. We sent this `POST /my-account/change-password` request to changed the `username` parameter to `carlos` and added a payload position to the `current-password` parameter. Make sure that the new password parameters are set to two different values. For example: `username=carlos&current-password=§incorrect-password§&new-password-1=123&new-password-2=abc`. On the Payloads tab, we entered the list of passwords as the payload set. On the Settings tab, we added a grep match rule to flag responses containing `New passwords do not match`. Start the attack. When the attack finished, we noticed that one response was found that contains the `New passwords do not match message`. We made a note of this password. In the browser, we logged out of our own account and lock back in with the username `carlos` and the password that we just identified. Click My account to solve the lab.
